hello everyone so a burner
in South Africa where I come from Sal
Bona is the Zulu word for hollow there's
a beautiful and powerful intention
behind the word because Sal Bonin
literally translated means I see you and
by seeing you I bring you into being so
beautiful imagine being greeted like
that but what does it take in the way we
see ourselves our thoughts our emotions
and our stories that help us to thrive
in an increasingly complex and fraught
world this crucial question has been at
the center of my life's work because how
we deal with our inner world drives
everything every aspect of how we love
how we live how we parent and how we
lead the conventional view of emotions
as good or bad positive or negative is
rigid and rigidity in the face of
complexity is toxic we need greater
levels of emotional agility for true
resilience and thriving my journey with
us calling began not in the hallowed
halls of a university but in the messy
tender business of life I grew up in the
white suburbs of apartheid South Africa
a country and community committed to not
seeing to denial its denial that makes
50 years of racist legislation possible
while people convince themselves that
they are doing nothing wrong and yet I
first learned of the destructive power
of denial at a personal level before I
understood what it was doing to the
country of my birth my father died on a
Friday he was 42 years old and I was 15
my mother whispered to me to go and say
goodbye to my father before I went to
school so I put my backpack down and
walked the passage that ran through to
where the heart of our home my father
lay dying of cancer his eyes were closed
but he knew
was there in his presence I had always
felt seen I told him I loved him said
goodbye and headed off for my day at
school I drifted from science to
mathematics to history to biology as my
father slipped from the world from May
to July to September to November I went
about with my usual smile I didn't drop
a single grade when asked how I was
doing I would shrug and say okay I was
praised for being strong I was the
master of being okay but back home we
struggled my father hadn't been able to
keep his small business going during his
illness and my mother Lauren was
grieving the love of her life trying to
raise three children and the creditors
were knocking we felt as a family
financially and emotionally ravaged and
I began to spiral down isolated fast I
started to use food to numb my pain
binging and purging refusing to accept
the full weight of my grief
no one knew and in a culture that values
relentless positivity I thought that no
one wanted to know but one person did
not buy into my story of triumph over
grief my eighth grade English teacher
fixed me with burning blue eyes as she
handed out blank notebooks
she said write what you're feeling tell
the truth right
like nobody's reading and just like that
I was invited to show up authentically
to my grief and pain it was a simple act
but nothing short of a revolution for me
it was this revolution that started in
this blank notebook thirty years ago
that shaped my life's work the secret
silent correspondence with myself like a
gymnast I started to move beyond the
rigidity of denial into what I've now
come to call emotional agility
life's beauty is inseparable from its
fragility we are young until we are not
we walk down the street sexy until one
day we realize that we are unseen we neg
our children and one day realize that
there is silence where that child once
was now making his or her way in the
world we are healthy until a diagnosis
brings us to our knees the only
certainty is uncertainty and yet we are
not navigating this frailty successfully
or sustainably the World Health
Organization tells us that depression is
now the single leading cause of
disability globally outstripping cancer
outstripping heart disease and at a time
of Greater complexity and precedented
technological political and economic
change we are seeing how people's
tendency is more and more to lock down
into rigid responses to their emotions
on the one hand we might obsessively
brood on our feelings getting stuck
inside our heads
hooked on being right or victimized by
our newsfeed on the other we might
bottle I emotions pushing them aside and
permitting only those emotions deemed
legitimate in a survey I recently
conducted with over 70,000 people I
found that a third of us a third either
judge ourselves for having so-called bad
emotions like sadness anger or even
grief or actively try to push aside
these feelings we do this not only to
ourselves but also to people we love
like our children we may inadvertently
shame them out of emotions seen as
negative jump to solution and fail to
help them to see these emotions as
inherently valuable normal natural
emotions are now seen as
good or bad and being positive has
become a new form of moral correctness
people with cancer are automatically
told to just stay positive woman to stop
being so angry and the list goes on its
attorney its attorney of positivity and
it's cruel unkind and ineffective and we
do it ourselves and we do it to others
if there's one common feature of
brooding Bottling or force positivity
it's this they are all riddled responses
and if there's a single lesson we can
learn from the inevitable fall of
apartheid it is that rigid denial
doesn't work it's unsustainable for
individuals for families for societies
and as we watch the ice caps melt it is
unsustainable for our planet research on
emotional suppression shows that when
emotions are pushed aside or ignored
they get stronger psychologists call
this amplification like that delicious
chocolate cake in the refrigerator the
more you try to ignore it
the greater its hold on you you might
think you're in control of unwanted
emotions when you ignore them but in
fact they control you internal pain
always comes out
always and who pays the price we do our
children our colleagues our communities
now don't get me wrong I'm not empty
happiness a lot being happy I'm a pretty
happy person but when we push aside
normal emotions to embrace false
positivity we lose our capacity to
develop skills to deal with the world as
it is not as we wish it to be I've had
hundreds of people tell me what they
don't want to feel they say things like
I don't want to try because I don't want
to feel disappointed or I just want this
feeling to go away I understand I said
to them but you have dead people's goals
[Applause]
only dead people never get unwanted or
inconvenience by their feelings only
dead people never get stressed never get
broken hearts never experienced the
disappointment that comes with failure
tough emotions are part of our contract
with life you don't get to have a
meaningful career or raise a family or
leave the world a better place without
stress and discomfort discomfort is the
price of admission to a meaningful life
so how do we begin to dismantle rigidity
and embrace emotional agility as that
young schoolgirl when I leaned into
those blank pages I started to do away
with feelings of what I should be
experiencing and instead started to open
my heart to what I did feel pain and
grief and loss and regret research now
shows that the radical acceptance of all
of our emotions even the messy difficult
ones is the cornerstone to resilience
thriving and true authentic happiness
but emotional agility is more than just
an acceptance of emotions we also know
that accuracy matters in my own research
I found that words are essential we
often use quick and easy labels to
describe our feelings I'm stressed is
the most common one I hear but there's a
world of difference between stress and
disappointment or stress and that
knowing dread of I'm in the wrong career
when we label our emotions accurately we
are more able to discern the precise
cause of our feelings and what
scientists call the readiness potential
in our brain is activated allowing us to
take concrete steps but not just any
steps the right steps for us because our
emotions our data our emotions contain
flashing lights to things that we care
about we tend not to feel strong emotion
to stuff that doesn't mean anything in
our worlds
if you feel rage when you read the news
that rage is a signpost preps that you
value equity and fairness and an
opportunity to take active steps to
shape your life in that direction when
we are open to the difficult emotions we
are able to generate responses that are
values aligned but there's an important
caveat emotions are data they are not
directives we can show up turn minor
emotions for their values without
needing to listen to them just like I
can show up to my son in his frustration
with his baby sister but not endorsed
his idea that he gets to give her away
to the first stranger he sees in a
shopping mall we earn our emotions they
don't own us when we internalize the
difference between how I feel and all my
wisdom and what I do in a values aligned
action we generate the pathway to our
best selves via our emotions so what
does this look like in practice when you
feel a strong tough emotion don't race
for the emotional exits learn its
contours show up to the Journal of your
hearts what is the emotion telling you
and try not to say I am as in I am angry
or I am sad when you say I am it makes
you sound as if you are the emotion
whereas you are you and the emotion is a
data source instead try to notice the
feeling for what it is I'm noticing that
I'm feeling sad or I'm noticing that I'm
feeling angry these are essential skills
for us our families our communities
they're all so critical to the workplace
in my research when I looked at what
helps people to bring the best of
themselves to work
I found a powerful key contributor
individualized consideration when people
are allowed to feel their emotional
truths engagement creativity and
innovation flourish in the organization
diversity isn't just people it's also
what's inside people including diversity
of emotion the most agile resilient
individuals teams organizations families
communities are built on an openness to
the normal human emotions it's this that
allows us to say what is my emotion
telling me which action will bring me
towards my values which will take me
away from our values emotional agility
is the ability to be with your emotions
with curiosity compassion and especially
the courage to take values connected
steps when I was little I would wake up
at night terrified by the idea of death
my father would comfort me with soft
pets and kisses but he would never lie
we all died a Suzy he would say it's
normal to be scared he didn't try to
invent a buffer between me and reality
it took me a while to understand the
power of how he guided me through those
nights what he showed me is that courage
is not an absence of fear courage is
fear walking neither of us knew that in
10 short years he would be gone and the
time for each of us is all too precious
and all too brief but when our moment
comes to face our fragility in their
ultimate time it will ask us or you
agile are you agile let the moment be an
unreserved yes a yes born of a lifelong
correspondence with your own heart and
in seeing yourself because in seeing
yourself you are also able to see others
- the only sustainable way forward in a
fragile beautiful world suburb honor and
thank you
[Applause]